There are 2,000 ways to make wine
so there is not a single Beaujolais Nouveau,
there are new Beaujolais!
I would say there are so many Beaujolais Nouveaux
that there are men who make them
since we only have one grape variety
the gamay, which serves to make
and to produce these wines
but which are different depending on the winemaker
who will work, the work he will bring to his vineyard
and the technique he will use to vinify these wines.
New Beaujolais
are a part of the production
Beaujolais wines that are released for consumption
in premiere so in preview,
there is a derogation to market them
earlier than the other appellations,
it's our specificity to us, to be able to do
young wines that come to somehow give
a ray of sunshine in the fall.
The know-how of the winemakers, I think it's patience,
you have to wait for a very good maturity
so the grapes must be ripe
for there to be an alcohol / acidity balance.
The whole vineyard can not be mechanized
so we have the main works of the vineyard
that can be done manually
and mainly the grape harvest too.
The territory of Beaujolais is a territory
where we work a lot by hand,
there is a lot of manual work in the vineyard,
when it's time to shear the vines,
there are many things that are actually done
manually all year.
The hand of man is present permanently.
Gamay is a very special grape,
so already it's a red grape with white juice
so that is very little planted worldwide.
In France, the main production area
of this grape variety
so it's the Beaujolais region.
Gamay is really a variety that requires care,
which requires delicacy.
Sometimes my husband says it's like women
and I quite agree with him eventually.
We need to be treated,
pampered to give a quality wine.
The Beaujolais Nouveau is really on this weft
fruit, lightness.
It's a variety that does not have a lot of tannin,
which has little tannin so that really allows
to have very round wines.
These are wines that are fond,
who are on the fruit with a grape variety
who gives us all that we can expect from a wine,
easy to share, easy to drink.
For the third Thursday of November,
the release of Beaujolais Nouveau
it's really something very very nice,
very friendly, I look forward to it
every year because it's the first returns
that we have of our work that we did for 1 year.
It's rather nice to see the world
who comes to see us to taste these new Beaujolais
because it's historic, it's party time.
We put forward a know-how,
we highlight men
and today we highlight quality wines.
You have to be friendly to be a winemaker
in Beaujolais.
Friendliness, sharing
it's values ​​that make the region.
It is first of all a spirit of discovery,
a spirit of work.
The first adjective that comes to me
it is a wine of sharing and a wine of conviviality.
The first wine of the year,
the buddy's wine,
the wine of pleasure,
it's really a beautiful land of welcome
with a very beautiful heritage.
We have something specific,
this is recognized worldwide.
And a spirit of putting forward a know-how
and a friendliness that is truly the image of the region.
Wines that are made by men,
who are craftsmen
and who are even artists in my opinion.